README.md, before:

![MetaMask logo](logo.png?raw=true)

# MetaMask

[![CI](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/ci.yml) [![CLA](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/cla.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/cla.yml)

MetaMask is a mobile wallet that provides easy access to websites that use the [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) blockchain.

For up to the minute news, follow our [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamask) or [Medium](https://medium.com/metamask) pages.

To learn how to develop MetaMask-compatible applications, visit our [Developer Docs](https://docs.metamask.io).

## MetaMask Mobile


### Environment Setup

The code is built using React-Native and running code locally requires a Mac or Linux OS.

-   Install [sentry-cli](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cli) tools: `brew install getsentry/tools/sentry-cli`

-   Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) **version 16**

    -   If you are using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#installation) (recommended) running `nvm use` will automatically choose the right node version for you.

-   Install [Yarn v1](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

-   Install the shared [React Native dependencies](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) (`React Native CLI`, _not_ `Expo CLI`)

-   Install [cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html) by running:

```bash
sudo gem install cocoapods -v 1.12.1
```


### Device Environment Setup

#### Android

-   Install [Java](https://www.java.com/en/download/). To check if Java is already installed, run:
```
  java -version
```
-   Install the Android SDK, via [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio).
    -   _MetaMask Only:_ To create production builds, you need to install Google Play Licensing Library via the SDK Manager in Android Studio.
-   Install the Android NDK (version `21.4.7075529`), via [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)'s SDK Manager.
    - Go to Settings > Appearance & Behavior > System Settings > Android SDK
        - Shortcut: Selecting `More Actions` > `SDK Manager` from the "Welcome to Android Studio" page will also bring you here.
    - Select `SDK Tools` tab
    - Check `Show Package Details` option below the tools list to show available versions
    - Locate `NDK (Side-by-side)` option in the tools list
    - Check NDK version `21.4.7075529`
    - Locate `CMake` option in the tools list
    - Check CMake version `3.10.2`
    - Click "Apply" or "OK" to download
-   Linux only:
    -   Ensure that you have the `secret-tool` binary on your machine.
        -   Part of the [libsecret-tools](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+package/libsecret-tools) package on Debian/Ubuntu based distributions.
-   Install the correct emulator
    -   Follow the instructions at:
        -   [React Native Getting Started - Android](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) _(React Native CLI Quickstart -> [your OS] -> Android)_
        -   More details can be found [on the Android Developer site](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator)
    -   You should use the following:
        -   **Android OS Version:** Latest, unless told otherwise
        -   **Device:** Google Pixel 3
-   Finally, start the emulator from Android Studio:
    -   Open "Virtual Device Manager"
    -   Launch emulator for "Pixel 3 <relevant API version mentioned in [React Native Getting Started](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies)>"


#### iOS

-   Install the iOS dependencies
    -   [React Native Getting Started - iOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) _(React Native CLI Quickstart -> [your OS] -> iOS)_
-   Install the correct simulator
    -   **iOS OS Version:** Latest, unless told otherwise
    -   **Device:** iPhone 12 Pro



### Building Locally

-   Clone this repo:
```bash
git clone ...
cd metamask-mobile
```

-   _MetaMask Only:_ Rename the `.*.env.example` files (remove the `.example`) in the root of the project and fill in the appropriate values for each key. Get the values from another MetaMask Mobile developer.
-   _Non-MetaMask Only:_ In the project root folder run
- If you intend to use WalletConnect v2 during your development, you should register to get a projectId from WalletConnect website and set the `WALLET_CONNECT_PROJECT_ID` value accordingly in .js.env file.
```
  cp .ios.env.example .ios.env && \
  cp .android.env.example .android.env && \
  cp .js.env.example .js.env
```
-   _Non-MetaMask Only:_ Create an account and generate your own API key at [Infura](https://infura.io) in order to connect to main and test nets. Fill `MM_INFURA_PROJECT_ID` in `.js.env`. (App will run without it, but will not be able to connect to actual network.)
- _Non-MetaMask Only:_ Fill `MM_SENTRY_DSN` in `.js.env` if you want the app to emit logs to your own Sentry project.

-   Install the app:
```
yarn setup # not the usual install command, this will run a lengthy postinstall flow
```

-   Then, in one terminal, run:
```bash
yarn watch
```

#### Android
```bash
yarn start:android
```

#### iOS
```bash
yarn start:ios
```


#### Build Troubleshooting

Unfortunately, the build system may fail to pick up local changes, such as installing new NPM packages or `yarn link`ing a dependency.
If the app is behaving strangely or not picking up your local changes, it may be due to build issues.
To ensure that you're starting with a clean slate, close all emulators/simulators, stop the `yarn watch` process, and run:

```bash
yarn clean

# if you're going to `yarn link` any packages,
# do that here, before the next command

yarn watch:clean

# ...and then, in another terminal

yarn start:ios

# or

yarn start:android
```

If `yarn link` fails after going through these steps, try directly `yarn add`ing the local files instead.

### Debugging

First, make sure you have the following running:

-   `yarn watch`
-   Your Android emulator or iOS simulator
-   `yarn start:android` or `yarn start:ios`

Next, install the [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com/) desktop app (verified working with v0.127.0)

-   Once Flipper is installed, configure your system as follows:
    -   Install react-devtools: `npm i -g react-devtools@4.22.1`
    -   Update Android SDK location settings by accessing Flipper's settings via the `Gear Icon` -> `Settings`
        -   Example SDK path: `/Users/<USER_NAME>/Library/Android/sdk`

Finally, check that the debugger is working:

-   Open your emulator or simulator alongside the Flipper app
-   Flipper should auto-detect the device and the application to debug
-   You should now be able to access features such as `Logs`

#### Debugging Physical iOS devices

-   Debugging physical iOS devices requires `idb` to be installed, which consists of 2 parts
-   Install the two idb parts:
    1. `brew tap facebook/fb` & `brew install idb-companion`
    2. `pip3.9 install fb-idb` (This step may require that you install python3 via `python -m pip3 install --upgrade pip`)

#### Debug a website inside the WebView (in-app browser)

Android

-   Run the app in debug mode (for example, in a simulator)
-   Open Chrome on your desktop
-   Go to `chrome://inspect/#devices`
-   Look for the device and click inspect

iOS

-   Run the app in debug mode (for example, in a simulator)
-   Open Safari on your desktop
-   Go to the menu Develop -> [Your device] -> [Website]

You should see the console for the website that is running inside the WebView

#### Miscellaneous

-   [Troubleshooting for React Native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/troubleshooting#content)
-   [Flipper Documentation](https://fbflipper.com/docs/features/react-native/)

### Running Tests

#### Unit Tests

```bash
yarn test:unit
```

#### E2E Tests

##### Platforms

For both iOS and Android platforms, our chosen E2E test framework is Detox. We also utilize Appium for Android (wdio folder).

##### Test wallet

E2E tests use a wallet able to access testnet and mainnet.
On Bitrise CI, the wallet is created using the secret recovery phrase from secret env var.
For local testing, the wallet is created using the secret recovery phrase from the `.e2e.env` file.

##### Detox
All tests live within the e2e/specs folder.

### iOS
Prerequisites for running tests:
- Make sure to install `detox-cli` by referring to the instructions mentioned [here](https://wix.github.io/Detox/docs/introduction/getting-started/#detox-prerequisites).
- Additionally, install `applesimutils` by following the guidelines provided [here](https://github.com/wix/AppleSimulatorUtils).
- Before running any tests, it's recommended to refer to the `iOS section` above and check the latest simulator device specified under `Install the correct simulator`.
- The default device for iOS is the iPhone 12 Pro and Android the Pixel 5. Ensure you have these set up. 
- Make sure that Metro is running. Use this command to launch the metro server:

```bash
yarn watch
```

You can trigger the tests against a `release` or `debug` build. It recommended that you trigger the tests against a debug build.

To trigger the tests on a debug build run this command:

For iOS
```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug
```
and on Android:
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug
```

If you choose to run tests against a release build, you can do so by running this command:

For iOS

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios
```
and on Android:
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android
```

If you have already built the application for Detox and want to run a specific test from the test folder, you can use this command:

For iOS

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug:single e2e/specs/TEST_NAME.spec.js
```

and on Android:

```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug:single e2e/specs/TEST_NAME.spec.js
```

To run tests associated with a certain tag, you can do so using the `--testNamePattern` flag. For example:

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug --testNamePattern="Smoke"
```
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug --testNamePattern="Smoke"
```

This runs all tests that are tagged "Smoke"

##### Appium

The appium tests lives within the wdio/feature folder.

By default the tests use an avd named `Android 11 - Pixel 4a API 31`, with API `Level 30` (Android 11). You can modify the emulator and platform version by navigating to `wdio/config/android.config.debug.js` and adjusting the values of `deviceName` to match your emulator's name, and `platformVersion` to match your operating system's version. Make sure to verify that the config file accurately represents your emulator settings before executing any tests.

The sequence in which you should run tests:

create a test build using this command:
```bash
yarn start:android:qa
```

Then run tests using this command:

```bash
yarn test:wdio:android
```

If you want to run a specific test, you can include the `--spec` flag in the aforementioned command. For example:
```bash
yarn test:wdio:android --spec ./wdio/features/Onboarding/CreateNewWallet.feature
```

### Changing dependencies

Whenever you change dependencies (adding, removing, or updating, either in `package.json` or `yarn.lock`), there are various files that must be kept up-to-date.

-   `yarn.lock`:
    -   Run `yarn setup` again after your changes to ensure `yarn.lock` has been properly updated.
-   The `allow-scripts` configuration in `package.json`
    -   Run `yarn allow-scripts auto` to update the `allow-scripts` configuration automatically. This config determines whether the package's install/postinstall scripts are allowed to run. Review each new package to determine whether the install script needs to run or not, testing if necessary.
    -   Unfortunately, `yarn allow-scripts auto` will behave inconsistently on different platforms. macOS and Windows users may see extraneous changes relating to optional dependencies.

### Architecture

To get a better understanding of the internal architecture of this app take a look at [this diagram](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/blob/main/architecture.svg).

### Storybook

We have begun documenting our components using Storybook. Please read the [Documentation Guidelines](./storybook/DOCUMENTATION_GUIDELINES.md) to get up and running.

### Other Docs

- [Adding Confirmations](./docs/confirmations.md)

Commit message:

feat: add redux-flipper tool

README.md, after:

![MetaMask logo](logo.png?raw=true)

# MetaMask

[![CI](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/ci.yml) [![CLA](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/cla.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/actions/workflows/cla.yml)

MetaMask is a mobile wallet that provides easy access to websites that use the [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) blockchain.

For up to the minute news, follow our [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamask) or [Medium](https://medium.com/metamask) pages.

To learn how to develop MetaMask-compatible applications, visit our [Developer Docs](https://docs.metamask.io).

## MetaMask Mobile


### Environment Setup

The code is built using React-Native and running code locally requires a Mac or Linux OS.

-   Install [sentry-cli](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cli) tools: `brew install getsentry/tools/sentry-cli`

-   Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) **version 16**

    -   If you are using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#installation) (recommended) running `nvm use` will automatically choose the right node version for you.

-   Install [Yarn v1](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

-   Install the shared [React Native dependencies](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) (`React Native CLI`, _not_ `Expo CLI`)

-   Install [cocoapods](https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html) by running:

```bash
sudo gem install cocoapods -v 1.12.1
```


### Device Environment Setup

#### Android

-   Install [Java](https://www.java.com/en/download/). To check if Java is already installed, run:
```
  java -version
```
-   Install the Android SDK, via [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio).
    -   _MetaMask Only:_ To create production builds, you need to install Google Play Licensing Library via the SDK Manager in Android Studio.
-   Install the Android NDK (version `21.4.7075529`), via [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)'s SDK Manager.
    - Go to Settings > Appearance & Behavior > System Settings > Android SDK
        - Shortcut: Selecting `More Actions` > `SDK Manager` from the "Welcome to Android Studio" page will also bring you here.
    - Select `SDK Tools` tab
    - Check `Show Package Details` option below the tools list to show available versions
    - Locate `NDK (Side-by-side)` option in the tools list
    - Check NDK version `21.4.7075529`
    - Locate `CMake` option in the tools list
    - Check CMake version `3.10.2`
    - Click "Apply" or "OK" to download
-   Linux only:
    -   Ensure that you have the `secret-tool` binary on your machine.
        -   Part of the [libsecret-tools](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/bionic/+package/libsecret-tools) package on Debian/Ubuntu based distributions.
-   Install the correct emulator
    -   Follow the instructions at:
        -   [React Native Getting Started - Android](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) _(React Native CLI Quickstart -> [your OS] -> Android)_
        -   More details can be found [on the Android Developer site](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator)
    -   You should use the following:
        -   **Android OS Version:** Latest, unless told otherwise
        -   **Device:** Google Pixel 3
-   Finally, start the emulator from Android Studio:
    -   Open "Virtual Device Manager"
    -   Launch emulator for "Pixel 3 <relevant API version mentioned in [React Native Getting Started](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies)>"


#### iOS

-   Install the iOS dependencies
    -   [React Native Getting Started - iOS](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup#installing-dependencies) _(React Native CLI Quickstart -> [your OS] -> iOS)_
-   Install the correct simulator
    -   **iOS OS Version:** Latest, unless told otherwise
    -   **Device:** iPhone 12 Pro



### Building Locally

-   Clone this repo:
```bash
git clone ...
cd metamask-mobile
```

-   _MetaMask Only:_ Rename the `.*.env.example` files (remove the `.example`) in the root of the project and fill in the appropriate values for each key. Get the values from another MetaMask Mobile developer.
-   _Non-MetaMask Only:_ In the project root folder run
- If you intend to use WalletConnect v2 during your development, you should register to get a projectId from WalletConnect website and set the `WALLET_CONNECT_PROJECT_ID` value accordingly in .js.env file.
```
  cp .ios.env.example .ios.env && \
  cp .android.env.example .android.env && \
  cp .js.env.example .js.env
```
-   _Non-MetaMask Only:_ Create an account and generate your own API key at [Infura](https://infura.io) in order to connect to main and test nets. Fill `MM_INFURA_PROJECT_ID` in `.js.env`. (App will run without it, but will not be able to connect to actual network.)
- _Non-MetaMask Only:_ Fill `MM_SENTRY_DSN` in `.js.env` if you want the app to emit logs to your own Sentry project.

-   Install the app:
```
yarn setup # not the usual install command, this will run a lengthy postinstall flow
```

-   Then, in one terminal, run:
```bash
yarn watch
```

#### Android
```bash
yarn start:android
```

#### iOS
```bash
yarn start:ios
```


#### Build Troubleshooting

Unfortunately, the build system may fail to pick up local changes, such as installing new NPM packages or `yarn link`ing a dependency.
If the app is behaving strangely or not picking up your local changes, it may be due to build issues.
To ensure that you're starting with a clean slate, close all emulators/simulators, stop the `yarn watch` process, and run:

```bash
yarn clean

# if you're going to `yarn link` any packages,
# do that here, before the next command

yarn watch:clean

# ...and then, in another terminal

yarn start:ios

# or

yarn start:android
```

If `yarn link` fails after going through these steps, try directly `yarn add`ing the local files instead.

### Debugging

First, make sure you have the following running:

-   `yarn watch`
-   Your Android emulator or iOS simulator
-   `yarn start:android` or `yarn start:ios`

Next, install the [Flipper](https://fbflipper.com/) desktop app (verified working with v0.127.0)

-   Once Flipper is installed, configure your system as follows:
    -   Install react-devtools: `npm i -g react-devtools@4.22.1`
    -   Update Android SDK location settings by accessing Flipper's settings via the `Gear Icon` -> `Settings` -> `Android SDK location`
        -   Example SDK path: `/Users/<USER_NAME>/Library/Android/sdk`
    -   Install Flipper plugins: `Network`, `redux-debugger`, etc.

Finally, check that the debugger is working:

-   Open your emulator or simulator alongside the Flipper app
-   Flipper should auto-detect the device and the application to debug
-   You should now be able to access features such as `Logs`, state tree from `redux-debugger`

#### Debugging Physical iOS devices

-   Debugging physical iOS devices requires `idb` to be installed, which consists of 2 parts
-   Install the two idb parts:
    1. `brew tap facebook/fb` & `brew install idb-companion`
    2. `pip3.9 install fb-idb` (This step may require that you install python3 via `python -m pip3 install --upgrade pip`)

#### Debug a website inside the WebView (in-app browser)

Android

-   Run the app in debug mode (for example, in a simulator)
-   Open Chrome on your desktop
-   Go to `chrome://inspect/#devices`
-   Look for the device and click inspect

iOS

-   Run the app in debug mode (for example, in a simulator)
-   Open Safari on your desktop
-   Go to the menu Develop -> [Your device] -> [Website]

You should see the console for the website that is running inside the WebView

#### Miscellaneous

-   [Troubleshooting for React Native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/troubleshooting#content)
-   [Flipper Documentation](https://fbflipper.com/docs/features/react-native/)

### Running Tests

#### Unit Tests

```bash
yarn test:unit
```

#### E2E Tests

##### Platforms

For both iOS and Android platforms, our chosen E2E test framework is Detox. We also utilize Appium for Android (wdio folder).

##### Test wallet

E2E tests use a wallet able to access testnet and mainnet.
On Bitrise CI, the wallet is created using the secret recovery phrase from secret env var.
For local testing, the wallet is created using the secret recovery phrase from the `.e2e.env` file.

##### Detox
All tests live within the e2e/specs folder.

### iOS
Prerequisites for running tests:
- Make sure to install `detox-cli` by referring to the instructions mentioned [here](https://wix.github.io/Detox/docs/introduction/getting-started/#detox-prerequisites).
- Additionally, install `applesimutils` by following the guidelines provided [here](https://github.com/wix/AppleSimulatorUtils).
- Before running any tests, it's recommended to refer to the `iOS section` above and check the latest simulator device specified under `Install the correct simulator`.
- The default device for iOS is the iPhone 12 Pro and Android the Pixel 5. Ensure you have these set up. 
- Make sure that Metro is running. Use this command to launch the metro server:

```bash
yarn watch
```

You can trigger the tests against a `release` or `debug` build. It recommended that you trigger the tests against a debug build.

To trigger the tests on a debug build run this command:

For iOS
```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug
```
and on Android:
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug
```

If you choose to run tests against a release build, you can do so by running this command:

For iOS

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios
```
and on Android:
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android
```

If you have already built the application for Detox and want to run a specific test from the test folder, you can use this command:

For iOS

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug:single e2e/specs/TEST_NAME.spec.js
```

and on Android:

```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug:single e2e/specs/TEST_NAME.spec.js
```

To run tests associated with a certain tag, you can do so using the `--testNamePattern` flag. For example:

```bash
yarn test:e2e:ios:debug --testNamePattern="Smoke"
```
```bash
yarn test:e2e:android:debug --testNamePattern="Smoke"
```

This runs all tests that are tagged "Smoke"

##### Appium

The appium tests lives within the wdio/feature folder.

By default the tests use an avd named `Android 11 - Pixel 4a API 31`, with API `Level 30` (Android 11). You can modify the emulator and platform version by navigating to `wdio/config/android.config.debug.js` and adjusting the values of `deviceName` to match your emulator's name, and `platformVersion` to match your operating system's version. Make sure to verify that the config file accurately represents your emulator settings before executing any tests.

The sequence in which you should run tests:

create a test build using this command:
```bash
yarn start:android:qa
```

Then run tests using this command:

```bash
yarn test:wdio:android
```

If you want to run a specific test, you can include the `--spec` flag in the aforementioned command. For example:
```bash
yarn test:wdio:android --spec ./wdio/features/Onboarding/CreateNewWallet.feature
```

### Changing dependencies

Whenever you change dependencies (adding, removing, or updating, either in `package.json` or `yarn.lock`), there are various files that must be kept up-to-date.

-   `yarn.lock`:
    -   Run `yarn setup` again after your changes to ensure `yarn.lock` has been properly updated.
-   The `allow-scripts` configuration in `package.json`
    -   Run `yarn allow-scripts auto` to update the `allow-scripts` configuration automatically. This config determines whether the package's install/postinstall scripts are allowed to run. Review each new package to determine whether the install script needs to run or not, testing if necessary.
    -   Unfortunately, `yarn allow-scripts auto` will behave inconsistently on different platforms. macOS and Windows users may see extraneous changes relating to optional dependencies.

### Architecture

To get a better understanding of the internal architecture of this app take a look at [this diagram](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile/blob/main/architecture.svg).

### Storybook

We have begun documenting our components using Storybook. Please read the [Documentation Guidelines](./storybook/DOCUMENTATION_GUIDELINES.md) to get up and running.

### Other Docs

- [Adding Confirmations](./docs/confirmations.md)
